Let's talk about some ways for improving the Tree real quick.
Here in the example we're just naively inserting points arbitrarily.
But, if we can actually balance the Tree better,
if we insert points that are evenly splitting the region for each dimension.
So how do you do this?
Well, that means that you would actually sort the points,
let's say first by the X component,
and then you pick the median value and the insert that point into the Tree.
Next you'd sort the points based on the Y values,
and then insert the median for the Y's.
What this does is it'll actually create a really balanced KD Tree,
and having a more balanced Tree,
means it's going to more effectively be able to search for points later on,
because it'll be able to more evenly split your regions apart.
So an example in our 2D case is inserting points.
Well, with our four points,
we'd be sorting them by the X components,
and then insert the X median.
Then with those three remaining points,
we'll sort them based on the Y values and then insert the Y median,
and then finally we'd go X median and then just the last point.
If you have an even number of points and you're trying to pick the median,
you can just pick the lower median.
So this is how you can create
a more balanced Tree that'll help you out later on when you're
trying to have the most efficient search time
for doing nearest neighbor with your KD tree.